FAIR DATA PROTOCOL
In the era of market integration and globalization, the safety and security of personal data is a matter of concern today. To solve that problem, a wonderful protocol based on fair data principles has been developed called Fair Data Protocol (FDP).
An ethical standard has been created for the collection, storage and processing of personal data called the Fair Data Principles. This is the cutting edge of innovative, technologically advanced standards. Therefore, it has many highlights as follows:
+ Ownership: Every individual has a lot of their own data and is also a part of their digital self. Only we own our data, other organizations or people can only access it if authorized. This ensures data is never misappropriated and shows how important ownership or copyright is
+ ZERO-DATA: Non-collection of personal data is a very important thing, the data collection is always kept to a minimum and within the allowable range. This ensures maximum data security.
+ Control: it is clear that only individuals have the right to their data, they control everything and no one can trespass
+ Consent: The use and further sharing of personal data is done only with consent. However, consent can also be revoked as easily as given, if there is no compulsion to give it in the first place. This is the strength of this consensual access
+ Value: All labor must be paid fairly, all data has a certain economic value. Therefore, anyone who owns the data can also sell his data and get the corresponding amount. This amount is based on the agreement of both parties and is assessed by a transparent and fair system. This creates benefits for everyone involved in the process. Recognizing data as labor is also a prerequisite for balancing influence
+ Responsibility: when you own the data, you are responsible for it. We strive to minimize data exchange and profit from anonymous data. What we aim to do is maximize the benefit of society.
+ Influence: Influence from outside and inside is also a very important and closely related thing, here, organizations allow the freedom to digitally link within their ecosystem. organization and also recognizes external links. However, strict confidentiality and agreements must also be adhered to. This helps with power distribution and this is really a plus in this regard.
+ Transparency & Accountability: When accessing personal data, organizations must provide a complete and clear explanation of how, why, where and when that data is used and stored. There will be risks or greater to society and the community, the owner must always be aware of that.
+ Ethics: Ethics should be a top priority when it comes to personal data on IT systems. All must be directed to security, safety, privacy, especially copyright issues. As a result, we can make privacy controls clearly visible and easy to use.
+ Interoperability: Interoperability and cooperation are essential in all different fields. The source code must be developed on many different platforms and software. These open sources enhance security, honesty, operational integrity, speed of processing, and advancement.
In order to ensure the above Fair Data principles, a protocol was created, which uses the data interaction protocol for dApps that use personal data. It's called the Fair Data Protocol (FDP).
To facilitate the creation of decentralized applications (dApps), web3's original and common protocols had to be re-established.
Therefore, towards security, transparency, intelligence, FDP has its specific mission such as: creating a window into the web3 file system, providing web3 storage for dApps to connect and use, organize organize personal data and enable access and cross-access to it, transforming the data into information in a more global and reusable way than before.
With the above clear mission in mind, it was necessary to build fully featured web3 applications that could consume the data of other dApps and aggregate on top of that.
Therefore, it is necessary to clearly define the Structure of Personal Data, creating a dApp that interprets the generated data of another dApp, allowing users to easily transfer their data from one application to another. More specifically, is the need for globalized decentralized storage, quick and accurate access to authentication, authorization and interaction with personal data.
This is also a place where users can share their data with dApps for service or to earn money, which is great for both parties. All labor must be duly paid, all data has a certain economic value. Therefore, anyone who owns the data can also sell his data and get the corresponding amount.
All of the above points are special strengths and highlights that this protocol brings, it creates a data market that is completely more attractive than web2. Furthermore, it fully and accurately meets all 10 fair data principles outlined above. This is really great progress
To develop this amazing protocol, we need an important road map to achieve. The roadmap consists of 6 milestones, in which, the creation of a web3 ecosystem and the potential use of Ethereum Swarm is conducted in five steps. The final destination will be with integration with other P2P and web3 systems, specifically as follows: 
Milestone I. - Reviews with Protocolisation
Milestone II. - Registry Specifications
Milestone III. - Authentication
Milestone IV. - Authorization
Milestone V. - Web3 services with Data Economics
Milestone VI. - Interoperability with integrations
Obviously, this is a specific, clear and global roadmap to achieve the original noble purpose set by the project. With a clear purpose, dedicated development team towards common purpose and the development of society, Fair Data Protocol (FDP) is sure to be a successful project and protocol and receive more support in the future


Reference:
https://fairdatasociety.org/
https://github.com/fairDataSociety/FIPs/blob/master/text/0001-fdp-roadmap.md
https://principles.fairdatasociety.org/

